📖 Reference Documentation and resources

📖 Astra Docs - The Astra database creation procedure

🎥 Youtube Video - Walk through instance creation

== A - Overview

*`ASTRA DB`* is the simplest way to run Cassandra with zero operations -
just push the button and get your cluster. No credit card required and
$25.00 USD credit every month (_roughly 20M reads/writes, 80GB storage
monthly_) which is sufficient to run small production workloads.

== B - Prerequisites

* You should have an http://astra.datastax.com/[Astra account]. If you
don’t have one yet, keep reading and we’ll show you how to create it.

== C - Procedure

*✅ Step 1:Click the `sign-in` button to login or register.*

You can use your `Github`, `Google` accounts or register with an
`email`. Make sure to chose a password with a minimum of 8 characters,
containing upper and lowercase letters, and at least one number and
special character.

____
If you already have an Astra account, you can skip this step. Locate and
click the ``Create Database'' button on the left-side navigation bar of
your Astra UI, and read the next step.
____

*✅ Step 2: Complete the creation form*

_As you create a new account, you will be prompted to create a database;
you will see the same form if you simply hit the ``Create database''
button in your existing Astra account._

* *ℹ️ Fields Description*

[width="100%",cols="8%,92%",options="header",]
|===
|Field |Description
|*database name* |It does not need to be unique, is not used to
initialize a connection, and is only a label (Between 2 and 50
characters). It is recommended to have a database for each of your
applications. The free tier is limited to 5 databases.

|*keyspace* |It is a logical grouping of your tables (Between 2 and 48
characters). Please use lower case and `snake_case`.

|*Cloud Provider* |Use the one you like. Click a cloud provider logo,
pick an Area in the list and finally pick a region. We recommend
choosing a region that is closest to you to reduce latency. In free
tier, there is very little difference.
|===

* ℹ️ `Create Database` button becomes enabled only when all fields are
filled in properly. Please use only lower case and no spaces for a
keyspace name.
* ℹ️ You will see your new database `pending` in the Dashboard. The
status will change to `Active` when the database is ready, which will
only take 2-3 minutes. You will also receive an email when it is ready.

*👁️ Walkthrough*
